The hole of spacetime
--------------------------------

Professor Christopher Little rubbed the bridge of his nose, hugged his tattered lab coat to his body, and proceeded to speak in his brisk yet articulate manner:
"You do understand the basics of gravity, yes?"

Dr. Etheridge Tall, the new assistant to the eminent professor -- who sat across from him over the mahogany desk -- unconsciously ran a hand through his wavy black hair and replied impatiently,
"If you're speaking of the universal law of gravitation then yes, I am familiar."

"Then you know that the universe is, fundamentally, much like a rubber sheet, correct? Massive objects distort this sheet."

Tall frowned at this misnomer -- after all, it was a oversimplification that was explained to 1st year undergraduates.
"Yes, but isn't that a bit.. naive?"

The professor admitted,
"Ah yes -- it is a bit superficial. But it will serve as an analogy for now. You see, this rubber sheet -- the fabric of the universe, if you will -- is quite flexible. But if it is elastic, then the question naturally arises: Are there limits to its flexibility?"

Leaning forward at this, Tall took a stab in the dark,
"I suppose there would be, since anything above the Plank energy -"

"- concentrated extremely compactly would burn a hole in this fabric," the professor finished. "And that is precisely what I have been doing for these past few months. I have been collecting energy to focus at a single point. According to my calculations, there should be enough to burn a slight hole in the very fabric of space-time."

Tall asked reverently,
"And what do we expect to find on the other side?"

The professor gazed off into the distance, deep in thought.
"Something. Anything. It could be the primeval vacuum -- the problem being that, since it would exist outside the known universe, science as we know it is unable to predict what is out there. It is possible, however, that there is some sort of 'cosmic censor' preventing us from ever seeing outside our universe though."

Frowning again, Tall questioned,
"But there's no reason for a cosmic censor is there?"

Professor Little sat motionless for a few moments, still staring off into space. After a few long seconds he seemed to rouse himself and replied
"No, you're right. There's no reason such a censor would exist -- it would be quite illogical."

--------------------------------

A few weeks passed before Etheridge Tall found himself in the Asteroid Belt, deemed the safest place for such an experiment. The particular asteroid they had bought was spinning quickly enough to produce a pseudo-gravity. In the very center of the asteroid, in an almost gravity-less vacuum, the central experimentation chamber housed almost all of the equipment -- lead-lined walls which were over 20 meters thick, reflective energy crystals which stored almost incomprehensible amounts of energy, emergency coolant systems in case the temperature became uncontrollable. 

Professor Little asked for what seemed to be the hundredth time,
"Is the lead shielding all in place, the sensors set up correctly?"

Tall nodded once in confirmation.

The professor continued,
"Why do we need so much shielding?"

"Anything -- absolutely anything -- could come out of that tear. Radiation, photons, exotic particles -- they all need to be prepared for"

"That is correct. All the radiation, all the particles, everything -- they will all be picked up by the sensors. When we get back to Earth and analyse the data we may learn something on the intrinsic properties of the universe itself -- and perhaps uncover the nature of dark matter."

They arrived outside the central chambers' doors.

As they neared passed the threshold Professor Little continued,
"Remember, I've acquired a few yottajoules of energy, stored in the energy crystals"

Tall couldn't help but be impressed for the umpteenth time at the sheer energy involved in such an experiment -- incomprehensible amounts of energy, equal to the amount released by something on the order of trillions of nuclear explosions. Then again, with the entirety of the sun being harvested as an energy source, power was not expensive, and with Little's wealth and influence it was only a matter of asking.

They floated towards the control panel in the wall, the professor running a critical eye along the readouts.
"Everything seems to be in order -- pull on the count of three"

He grasped the lever and motioned for Tall to take the other.
"One... two... three!"

They pulled the levers.

--------------------------------

Although the high-pitched alarms were blaring and almost all the emergency lights had begun flashing, Tall frowned at the visual. There was only a brilliant white light in the center of the chamber. Apart from that, nothing. Nothing at all.

After an initial blinding flash (of course, the monitors were polarised so it wasn't actually blinding), the white-out had faded away to reveal a single brilliant point, apparently floating in the vacuum.

Tall now pointed a shaking hand at that point and whispered,
"What the hell is that?"

Professor Christopher Little shook his head.
"I have no idea but -- dammit, the lead sphere is melting! Look at these readouts -- this whole asteroid is going into a meltdown"

That broke Tall out of his trance. He raced over, heart hammering.
"But.. but what about all the heat absorption pads.. it was supposed to keep the energy contained"

Frantically pushing buttons, the professor paused his frenetic action to peer over his shoulder and yell,
"Stop babbling and go activate the circulation!"

As Tall raced to turn on the air supply that would saturate the inner chamber with oxygen, an epiphany struck him.
"Professor, the energy is purely electromagnetic, right?"

Something in his voice made the professor pause. He turned around, glancing briefly at the readouts before replying in the affirmative.

"Then could we not install mirrors to simply reflect the energy outwards -- away from this asteroid entirely?"

The professor wiped a hand across his brow. "That.. that seems reasonable. But where are we going to get the mirrors from?"

Tall paused -- that was something that he hadn't considered. As the thought struck him, Professor Little was already voicing it:
"The energy crystals -- they are 100% reflective under the right conditions!"

They got to work at once. And with that, the asteroid became a perpetual power source -- unlimited energy being radiated from it in an ultra-intense beam of gamma rays, reflected out through an aperture.

--------------------------------

After an uneventful return journey, Tall met with Little again over the mahogany desk. 

"Professor -- do you know why so much energy is leaking through the space-time tear? Is it because the universe the tunnel connects to has a natural higher energy state, thus forcing the energy through the gap? Or perhaps some other exotic matter is spontanously breaking down into photons as it enters our universe? Perhaps we tunnelled directly into the center of a star which-"

The professor held up a hand.
"I thought about that on my way back, and have come to a conclusion -- rather obvious now that I think about it. What's the one thing in the known universe that creates a tear in space-time?"

Frowning, Tall leaned back to think. And just as he arrived at the conclusion, the professor mirrored his thoughts:
"We created a black hole, of course!"