What we live for

--------------------------------

City life was wonderful -- bright neon lights, exquisite cuisine, and the people: rolling crowds of people, vibrant and alive with colour and energy. So I was caught by surprise when deafening silence fell.

In retrospect, it was little wonder that the announcement caused such shock. But at the time, without the benefit of hindsight, I could only stare around at the crowds, all frozen in mute horror.

You see, the announcement had been asking for volunteers to begin the colonisation of Mars. Now, the act of venturing into space was not that surprising in itself. Humanity had been on the cusp of leaving Mother Earth for almost a century. No, what was shocking to the public was the fact that they were the ones being asked to go out there. Alone.

Well, not entirely alone. Of course, you had your hundred or so fellow settlers. But what difference did it make -- one person or a hundred -- when you were used to being in instant communication with billions; when you were always surrounded by millions? In deep space, being stuck with a speed-of-light delay of half an hour from Mars equated to becoming a social pariah. You friends, your contacts, your followers -- they would all forget you in a heartbeat if you replies were not instantaneous. And in a world where social status was everything, this was unthinkable.

So you can imagine my surprise when I almost stepped forward to volunteer. Well, not almost. Not even close. I had felt the faintest twinge of humanity's innate curiosity for exploration, for discovery. However, looking back now, I can see that society's chains -- the need to conform, the fear of embarrassment otherwise -- held me back. I was a prisoner of society.

In the weeks that followed, the announcement was unmentioned in polite conversation, but unforgotten -- a dark cloud hanging ominously over our heads. Everybody knew that somebody would have to go -- and almost everybody dreaded being conscripted. Except me. In me, that twinge of curiosity, or, as others would see it, that chink in my social armour, had widened. I found myself idly disconnecting from the internet for seconds at a time -- an action that I had previously thought only those committing suicide would contemplate -- and wondering if this was what leaving, of removing those chains, would feel like. Yet even in those times, I was still restrained by society: my friends, noticing my absences, began asking if I was okay. When that happened, I always blamed a faulty internet connection.

It was during one of these absences when I finally came to the conclusion: I wanted a new life, a life full of adventure, intrigue and promise. I had managed to reduce society's hold to but a thin strand, albeit one that refused to snap. Even when I was sitting at my desk at home, my hand hovering over the "Confirm Volunteering" button, but I couldn't do it. The thought of the rumours that would spread, the disgust aimed at me, and the inevitable dissociation of everyone from my memory prevented me from clicking that button.

The next event which occurred was mildly surprising in its normalcy, combined with the effect its effect on me. My friend had just asked me if I wanted to go to a party, so I declined:

"no thx, u know the ic parties are boooring" [for those who don't live in my city region, ic means inner city here]

She replied,
"ik u don't wanna but its not about hving fun its about being seen being social".

And that thread, the one thing holding me back, snapped. I realised what I was living as -- a byproduct of society, not as an individual. I was subject to the whims of society. And suddenly, I didn't care about what others would think; I wanted to live for the joy of living, not live like a capitally sentenced prisoner. I clicked the button.

After that I only remember only fragments -- I was partially shell-shocked from the abrupt departure from the life I was accustomed to. I remember packing my bags; I could count on one hand the items of sentimental value to me; the automated mag-car arriving twenty minutes after the application. I remember getting driven to the launch site, entering the umanned space craft, leaving for Mars, and finally letting sleep take me.

--------------------------------

And that's pretty much my life story. At least, it's how I ended up here, parachuting down through the thin atmosphere towards the landing pad. I wonder what I'll find there. Life on Mars can't be that bad -- utilitarian LEDs, nourishing meals and people: few enough people that you can really get to know them, to really care about each other.

As I step out of the shuttle, I'm greeted by a young man who can't be more than twenty in a smart suit. But the suit isn't what catches my interest -- it's the energy he gives off, the brightness in his eye that dances with life. It's as if everybody I'd met before lost their colour compared to his vibrancy. He steps forwards and welcomes me, hand extended,

"Hi, and, um, welcome to Mars, I'm John, nice to meet you."

I can feel a warm, comforting buzzing as it fills up my entire body as I shake his proffered hand and reply,

"Hi John, nice to meet you too, I'm...









